---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

![img]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/about/isitme.png "Is it Me?"){: .center-image}

Developer, FOSS enthusiast, & avid GNU Emacs
user.
[My public key](http://pgp.mit.edu/pks/lookup?search=psachin&op=index)

### More information

![img]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/about/rx_open_source.png){: .center-image}

I try not to be biased with any programming language or technology. I
work on GNU/Linux and Free & Open Source Software for living. If you
are passionate about GNU and Free Software like me, I encourage you to
watch
this [YouTube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Er1pM9suxvE) by
Benjamin Mako Hill.

#### My work-space

![img]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/about/computers-300px.png){: .center-image}

##### @Home

My current system is [Lenovo
G505s](https://plus.google.com/photos/photo/113870692888444102463/6355020254313100738?icm=false&sqid=104043194426129544738&ssid=2c4bb3f4-0eed-4d83-9385-eb6e51a01dc9)
with AMD A8 Quad-core processor and 8 Gigs of RAM running Slackware
14.1(I always prefer [latest
kernel](https://github.com/psachin/bash_scripts/blob/master/build_my_kernel.sh)).
I usually work on this system.

My other system includes Acer _emachines_ eM350 netbook running
[Manjaro Linux](https://manjaro.org/) an independently developed [Arch
Linux](https://www.archlinux.org/). I use it as a hotspot using
[hotspotd](https://github.com/psachin/hotspotd). ~~I also have an old
desktop with AMD Athlon with 2 Gigs of RAM running Slackware again!.
The system's storage is shared via NFS across my home network,
basically this is my NFS server.~~

Apart from this I had a very old Intel Pentium II Machine with 350MHz
processor and 64MB of RAM running Vector Linux. ~~I wonder how this
machine [still
runs](https://plus.google.com/+Sachinp/posts/UMCp3L6NiAn?pid=5864821069617337218&oid=113870692888444102463)?~~

Most of my home network and Internet connection is managed by D-LINK
DIR-615E wireless router flashed with custom
[OpenWRT(_barrier-breaker_)](https://openwrt.org/). This is my
backup(and tiny) Linux system with minimal shell and `opkg` package
manager.

##### @Work

For work, I have Lenovo Thinkpad T440p running
[Fedora](https://getfedora.org/).

### Tools I use

![img]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/about/tools-server-small.png){: .center-image}

[GNU Emacs](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/) and a terminal are
the least I need.

I prefer to use latest Emacs version. My Emacs is heavily
[configured](https://github.com/psachin/.emacs.d) for all my needs
from programming(Python, Django, C, elisp, Ruby, shell etc.), blogs &
note taking([org-mode](https://orgmode.org/)), eshell, tramp, magit
etc. Recently I fell in love with `M-x emacs-timemachine`. Terminal is
occasionally needed to keep some front-end jobs running.

[Git](http://git-scm.com) is something I can't live without. I use Git
to keep track of my personal notes, blogs, and all the projects.
`magit` is a savior. It helps me a lot to learn insights of Git.

I prefer [Gnus](https://www.emacswiki.org/emacs/GnusTutorial) over
[mutt](http://www.mutt.org/) to manage mails.

### More..

I find programming in `elisp` relaxing when I'm bored with Python and
friends. Though not much but I do write helper functions and share it
on [sachin.pythonanywhere.com](http://sachin.pythonanywhere.com).

### Blogs

![img]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/about/Anonymous-pen-pencil-small.png){: .center-image}

For raw/old posts please
visit [blog-posts](https://github.com/psachin/blog-posts). Most of
them are written in [org-mode](http://orgmode.org/). I now
use [jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) to publish my
blogs(Source [here](https://github.com/psachin/psachin.github.io)).
Jekyll uses markdown which I don't like much. I miss org-mode to post
blogs.

### Presentations/Slides

All my presentation slides are pushed to
[https://github.com/psachin/slides](https://github.com/psachin/slides).
With few exceptions(Online):

* Red Hat forum: [2016](http://redhat.slides.com/psachin/rh-forum-2016), [2017](https://github.com/psachin/slides/blob/master/RH-forum/RedHatCloudForms-2017-Sachin.pdf)

* [GNU Hackers Meeting-2016](http://psachin.github.io/.emacs.d/):
  Manage GNU Emacs configuration using [literate
  programming](http://orgmode.org/worg/org-contrib/babel/intro.html).

* [OpenStack Swift Object
  Storage](http://redhat.slides.com/psachin/rhosp-swift-2016): Session
  covered Swift object storage architecture and demonstrated Object
  versioning in Swift.

* [py-starwars](http://psachin.github.io/py-starwars/): Introductory
  Python talk.

### Articles

* Published on [opensource.com](https://opensource.com/)
  * [Getting started with Emacs text editor](https://opensource.com/life/16/2/intro-to-emacs)
  * [How to create LaTeX documents with Emacs](https://opensource.com/article/18/4/how-create-latex-documents-emacs)
  * [How to kill a process or stop a program in Linux](https://opensource.com/article/18/5/how-kill-process-stop-program-linux)

* [GNU/Linux on Aakash](http://www.csi-india.org/communications/CSIC%20July%202013.pdf):
  An article published in CSI communications(July 2013)
  on [Aakash](http://aakashlabs.org/gnu/) during my work at Indian
  Institute of Technology Bombay.

* [Configuring Huawei-EC152
  modem](http://www.linuxquestions.org/linux/answers/hardware/configuring_huaweiec152_modem):
  My very first article appeared on
  [linuxquestions.org](https://www.linuxquestions.org/). I just
  started using GNU/Linux that time and USB-modeswitch was also quite
  new.

### IRC

![img]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/about/skogskanten-300px.png){: .center-image}

  `psachin@{RedHat, freenode, OFTC, GIMPNet}`

### Social

[Mark Zuckerberg is TIME Magazine's Person of the Year? Where's the
"dislike" button?](http://www.fsf.org/fb)

![img](http://static.fsf.org/nosvn/no-facebook-me.png "Not f'd â€” you won't find me on Facebook"){:
.center-image}
